You’ve probably heard time and time again that processed food is bad for you. Avoid preservatives; avoid processed foods; however, no one ever really givesyou any real or solid information on why you should avoid them and why theyare dangerous. So let’s break it down so that you can fully understand why you should avoid these culprits. 
As humans, we really have a strong tendency to be addicted to certain foods, but the fact is that it’s not entirely our fault. Practically all of the unhealthy eats we indulge in, from time to time, activate our brains dopamine neurotransmitter. This makes the brain feel good but only for a short period of time. This also creates an addiction tendency; that is why someone will always find themselves going back for another candy bar – even though they don’t really need it. You can avoid all this by removing that stimulus  altogether.
Processed and animal-based products are loaded with sugars and high fructose corn syrup which have close to zero nutritional value. More and more studies are now proving what a lot of people suspected all along; that genetically modified foods cause gut inflammation which in turn makes it harder for the body to absorb essential nutrients. The downside of your body failing to properly absorb essential nutrients, from muscle loss and brain fog to fat gain, cannot be stressed enough.
When your body is consuming artificial ingredients, it treats them as a foreign object. They essentially become an invader. Your body isn’t used to recognizing things like sucralose or these artificial sweeteners. So, your body does what it does best. It triggers an immune response which lowers your resistance making you vulnerable to diseases. The focus and energy spent by your body in protecting your immune system could otherwise be diverted elsewhere.
In their quest to load up on more animal protein most people end up displacing the plant protein that they already had. This is bad because unlike plant protein, animal protein often lacks in fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. Fiber deficiency is quite common across different communities and societies in the world. In the USA, for instance, according to the Institute of Medicine, the average adult consumes just about 15 grams of fiber per day against the recommended 38 grams. Lack of adequate dietary fiber intake is associated with an increased risk of colon and breast cancers, as well as Crohn’s disease, heart disease, and constipation.
